README.md, before:

# Aegis Orchestrator - AI-Powered Security Automation Platform

🔒 **An intelligent security vulnerability remediation system built with LangGraph and LangChain, powered by Google Cloud Vertex AI.**

## 🚀 Overview

The Aegis Orchestrator is a comprehensive security automation platform that uses advanced AI models to:

1. **Scan** repositories for security vulnerabilities
2. **Research** vulnerability details and remediation strategies  
3. **Generate** intelligent security fixes
4. **Review** proposed fixes for quality and effectiveness
5. **Deploy** fixes via automated pull requests

## 🏗️ Architecture

### LangGraph Workflow Engine
Built on LangGraph for sophisticated AI workflow orchestration:
- **State Management**: Persistent workflow state across all nodes
- **Conditional Routing**: Smart decision-making between workflow steps
- **Error Handling**: Robust error recovery and state rollback
- **Parallel Processing**: Concurrent vulnerability analysis

### AI Models (Google Cloud Vertex AI)
- **Scanner Model**: `gemini-pro` for vulnerability detection
- **Researcher Model**: `gemini-pro` for security research
- **Fixer Model**: `gemini-pro` for code remediation
- **Reviewer Model**: `gemini-pro` for fix validation

### Core Components

#### 🤖 Agents
- `FixerAgent`: Automated security fix generation
- `ResearcherAgent`: Vulnerability analysis and research  
- `TesterAgent`: Security testing and validation
- `OrchestratorApp`: Main workflow coordinator

#### 🔧 Services
- `GitHandler`: Repository operations and Git management
- `SASTClient`: Static Application Security Testing integration
- `TestingHarness`: Comprehensive security test execution

#### 🌊 LangGraph Workflow
- `WorkflowNodes`: AI-powered workflow node implementations
- `AegisWorkflow`: Complete vulnerability remediation pipeline
- `WorkflowState`: State management and transitions

## 📁 Project Structure

```
Aegis-Orchestrator/
├── agents/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── fixer_agent.py              # Security fix generation
│   ├── orchestrator_app.py         # Main orchestrator (LangGraph)
│   ├── researcher_agent.py         # Vulnerability research
│   ├── tester_agent.py            # Security testing
│   ├── workflow.py                # LangGraph workflow definition
│   ├── workflow_nodes.py          # AI-powered workflow nodes
│   └── simplified_workflow.py     # Testing workflow
├── config/
│   └── settings.py                # Vertex AI & LangChain config
├── services/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── git_handler.py             # Git operations
│   ├── sast_client.py             # SAST integration
│   └── testing_harness.py         # Security testing
├── tests/
│   ├── test_*.py                  # Comprehensive unit tests
│   └── test_integration_workflow.py  # LangGraph tests
├── examples/
│   └── workflow_demo.py           # Workflow demonstration
├── infra/
│   └── configuration/terraform/   # Infrastructure as Code
├── main.py                        # CLI entry point
├── test_workflow.py              # Workflow testing
└── requirements.txt              # Python dependencies
```

## 🛠️ Key Features

### 🔍 Intelligent Vulnerability Detection
- Multi-language security scanning
- CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration) classification
- Severity assessment and risk scoring
- False positive reduction through AI analysis

### 🧠 AI-Powered Fix Generation  
- Context-aware code remediation
- Security best practices enforcement
- Multi-pattern fix strategies
- Confidence scoring for generated fixes

### 🔄 Automated Workflow Orchestration
- LangGraph state machine management
- Conditional workflow routing
- Error recovery and rollback
- Comprehensive audit logging

### 📊 Advanced Analytics
- Security metrics dashboard
- Vulnerability trend analysis
- Fix effectiveness tracking
- Compliance reporting

## 🚦 Workflow States

1. **INITIALIZE** → Setup and configuration
2. **SCAN_VULNERABILITIES** → AI-powered security scanning  
3. **RESEARCH_VULNERABILITIES** → Deep vulnerability analysis
4. **GENERATE_FIXES** → Intelligent remediation generation
5. **REVIEW_FIXES** → AI-powered fix validation
6. **CREATE_PR** → Automated pull request creation
7. **COMPLETE** → Workflow completion and reporting

## 🔧 Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+
- Google Cloud Project with Vertex AI enabled
- Git repository access
- Docker (optional, for containerized deployment)

### Local Development Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd Aegis-Orchestrator

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Configure environment variables
export PROJECT_ID="your-gcp-project-id"
export REGION="us-central1"
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="path/to/service-account.json"

# Test the workflow
python test_workflow.py
```

### Google Cloud Configuration

```bash
# Setup Google Cloud credentials
gcloud auth application-default login

# Enable required APIs
gcloud services enable aiplatform.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable storage-api.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable cloudbuild.googleapis.com
```

## 🖥️ Usage

### Command Line Interface

```bash
# Basic vulnerability scan and fix
python main.py https://github.com/your-org/your-repo

# Dry run (analysis only, no PRs)
python main.py --dry-run https://github.com/your-org/your-repo

# List supported vulnerability types
python main.py --list-vulnerabilities

# Custom logging level
python main.py --log-level DEBUG https://github.com/your-org/your-repo
```

### Programmatic Usage

```python
from agents.orchestrator_app import OrchestratorApp

# Initialize orchestrator
orchestrator = OrchestratorApp()

# Process repository
result = orchestrator.process_repository("https://github.com/example/repo")

# Check results
if result["status"] == "success":
    print(f"Fixed {result['fixes_applied']} vulnerabilities")
    print(f"PR created: {result['pull_request']['url']}")
```

### Workflow Demonstration

```python
# Run the workflow demo
python examples/workflow_demo.py

# Show workflow architecture only
python examples/workflow_demo.py --info-only
```

## 🧪 Testing

### Unit Tests
```bash
# Run all tests
python -m unittest discover tests/

# Run specific test suite
python -m unittest tests.test_fixer_agent
python -m unittest tests.test_orchestrator_app

# Run workflow integration tests
python tests/test_integration_workflow.py
```

### Test Coverage
- **29 unit tests** covering all agents and services
- **Mock-based testing** for external dependencies
- **Integration tests** for LangGraph workflows
- **End-to-end workflow validation**

## 🛡️ Supported Vulnerability Types

| Vulnerability | CWE IDs | Severity | AI Model |
|---------------|---------|----------|----------|
| SQL Injection | CWE-89 | High | Gemini-Pro |
| Cross-Site Scripting | CWE-79 | Medium-High | Gemini-Pro |
| Command Injection | CWE-78 | High | Gemini-Pro |
| Path Traversal | CWE-22 | Medium | Gemini-Pro |
| Insecure Deserialization | CWE-502 | High | Gemini-Pro |
| Authentication Bypass | CWE-287 | High | Gemini-Pro |
| Authorization Issues | CWE-285 | Medium-High | Gemini-Pro |
| Crypto Weaknesses | CWE-327 | Medium | Gemini-Pro |

## 🌐 Deployment

### Cloud Run (Google Cloud)

```bash
# Build and deploy
gcloud builds submit --tag gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/aegis-orchestrator
gcloud run deploy --image gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/aegis-orchestrator --platform managed
```

### Terraform Infrastructure

```bash
cd infra/configuration/terraform
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

### GitHub Actions CI/CD

Automated deployment pipeline with:
- Code quality checks (pylint, black, isort)
- Security scanning
- Unit test execution
- Docker image building
- Cloud Run deployment

## 📈 Performance & Metrics

### Throughput
- **Repository Analysis**: ~100 files/minute
- **Vulnerability Detection**: ~95% accuracy
- **Fix Generation**: ~85% success rate
- **False Positive Rate**: <10%

### Scalability
- Horizontal scaling via Cloud Run
- Concurrent repository processing
- Vertex AI model auto-scaling
- Distributed workflow execution

## 🔐 Security & Compliance

### Security Features
- Encrypted credential storage
- Audit logging for all operations
- Role-based access control (RBAC)
- Secure API communication (HTTPS/TLS)

### Compliance Standards
- SOC 2 Type II compliance ready
- GDPR data protection compliance
- ISO 27001 security standards
- NIST Cybersecurity Framework alignment

## 🤝 Contributing

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Run tests (`python -m unittest discover tests/`)
4. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
5. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
6. Open Pull Request

### Code Quality Standards
- **Linting**: pylint score ≥ 8.0
- **Formatting**: black code formatter
- **Type Hints**: mypy static type checking
- **Test Coverage**: ≥ 80% code coverage
- **Documentation**: Comprehensive docstrings

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support & Documentation

### Resources
- **Documentation**: [Full API Documentation](docs/)
- **Examples**: [Usage Examples](examples/)
- **Tutorials**: [Getting Started Guide](docs/tutorial.md)
- **FAQ**: [Frequently Asked Questions](docs/faq.md)

### Getting Help
- 📧 Email: support@aegis-orchestrator.dev
- 💬 Slack: #aegis-orchestrator
- 🐛 Issues: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/your-org/aegis-orchestrator/issues)
- 📚 Wiki: [Project Wiki](https://github.com/your-org/aegis-orchestrator/wiki)

---

**Built with ❤️ by the Aegis Security Team**

*Empowering developers to build secure applications through intelligent automation.*

Commit message:

feat: Add Apache License 2.0 to project
 License Implementation:
- Added complete Apache License 2.0 text in LICENSE file
- Updated README.md with license section and copyright notice
- Added license headers to key Python files (main.py, orchestrator_app.py)
- Specified 2025 copyright for Aegis Orchestrator Contributors

 Legal Compliance:
- Provides clear open-source licensing terms
- Enables commercial and non-commercial use
- Includes patent grant protections
- Follows Apache Foundation best practices

 Documentation:
- License reference in README for visibility
- Proper copyright attribution
- Links to full license text
- Usage permissions clearly stated

README.md, after:

# Aegis Orchestrator - AI-Powered Security Automation Platform

🔒 **An intelligent security vulnerability remediation system built with LangGraph and LangChain, powered by Google Cloud Vertex AI.**

## 🚀 Overview

The Aegis Orchestrator is a comprehensive security automation platform that uses advanced AI models to:

1. **Scan** repositories for security vulnerabilities
2. **Research** vulnerability details and remediation strategies  
3. **Generate** intelligent security fixes
4. **Review** proposed fixes for quality and effectiveness
5. **Deploy** fixes via automated pull requests

## 🏗️ Architecture

### LangGraph Workflow Engine
Built on LangGraph for sophisticated AI workflow orchestration:
- **State Management**: Persistent workflow state across all nodes
- **Conditional Routing**: Smart decision-making between workflow steps
- **Error Handling**: Robust error recovery and state rollback
- **Parallel Processing**: Concurrent vulnerability analysis

### AI Models (Google Cloud Vertex AI)
- **Scanner Model**: `gemini-pro` for vulnerability detection
- **Researcher Model**: `gemini-pro` for security research
- **Fixer Model**: `gemini-pro` for code remediation
- **Reviewer Model**: `gemini-pro` for fix validation

### Core Components

#### 🤖 Agents
- `FixerAgent`: Automated security fix generation
- `ResearcherAgent`: Vulnerability analysis and research  
- `TesterAgent`: Security testing and validation
- `OrchestratorApp`: Main workflow coordinator

#### 🔧 Services
- `GitHandler`: Repository operations and Git management
- `SASTClient`: Static Application Security Testing integration
- `TestingHarness`: Comprehensive security test execution

#### 🌊 LangGraph Workflow
- `WorkflowNodes`: AI-powered workflow node implementations
- `AegisWorkflow`: Complete vulnerability remediation pipeline
- `WorkflowState`: State management and transitions

## 📁 Project Structure

```
Aegis-Orchestrator/
├── agents/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── fixer_agent.py              # Security fix generation
│   ├── orchestrator_app.py         # Main orchestrator (LangGraph)
│   ├── researcher_agent.py         # Vulnerability research
│   ├── tester_agent.py            # Security testing
│   ├── workflow.py                # LangGraph workflow definition
│   ├── workflow_nodes.py          # AI-powered workflow nodes
│   └── simplified_workflow.py     # Testing workflow
├── config/
│   └── settings.py                # Vertex AI & LangChain config
├── services/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── git_handler.py             # Git operations
│   ├── sast_client.py             # SAST integration
│   └── testing_harness.py         # Security testing
├── tests/
│   ├── test_*.py                  # Comprehensive unit tests
│   └── test_integration_workflow.py  # LangGraph tests
├── examples/
│   └── workflow_demo.py           # Workflow demonstration
├── infra/
│   └── configuration/terraform/   # Infrastructure as Code
├── main.py                        # CLI entry point
├── test_workflow.py              # Workflow testing
└── requirements.txt              # Python dependencies
```

## 🛠️ Key Features

### 🔍 Intelligent Vulnerability Detection
- Multi-language security scanning
- CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration) classification
- Severity assessment and risk scoring
- False positive reduction through AI analysis

### 🧠 AI-Powered Fix Generation  
- Context-aware code remediation
- Security best practices enforcement
- Multi-pattern fix strategies
- Confidence scoring for generated fixes

### 🔄 Automated Workflow Orchestration
- LangGraph state machine management
- Conditional workflow routing
- Error recovery and rollback
- Comprehensive audit logging

### 📊 Advanced Analytics
- Security metrics dashboard
- Vulnerability trend analysis
- Fix effectiveness tracking
- Compliance reporting

## 🚦 Workflow States

1. **INITIALIZE** → Setup and configuration
2. **SCAN_VULNERABILITIES** → AI-powered security scanning  
3. **RESEARCH_VULNERABILITIES** → Deep vulnerability analysis
4. **GENERATE_FIXES** → Intelligent remediation generation
5. **REVIEW_FIXES** → AI-powered fix validation
6. **CREATE_PR** → Automated pull request creation
7. **COMPLETE** → Workflow completion and reporting

## 🔧 Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+
- Google Cloud Project with Vertex AI enabled
- Git repository access
- Docker (optional, for containerized deployment)

### Local Development Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd Aegis-Orchestrator

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Configure environment variables
export PROJECT_ID="your-gcp-project-id"
export REGION="us-central1"
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="path/to/service-account.json"

# Test the workflow
python test_workflow.py
```

### Google Cloud Configuration

```bash
# Setup Google Cloud credentials
gcloud auth application-default login

# Enable required APIs
gcloud services enable aiplatform.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable storage-api.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable cloudbuild.googleapis.com
```

## 🖥️ Usage

### Command Line Interface

```bash
# Basic vulnerability scan and fix
python main.py https://github.com/your-org/your-repo

# Dry run (analysis only, no PRs)
python main.py --dry-run https://github.com/your-org/your-repo

# List supported vulnerability types
python main.py --list-vulnerabilities

# Custom logging level
python main.py --log-level DEBUG https://github.com/your-org/your-repo
```

### Programmatic Usage

```python
from agents.orchestrator_app import OrchestratorApp

# Initialize orchestrator
orchestrator = OrchestratorApp()

# Process repository
result = orchestrator.process_repository("https://github.com/example/repo")

# Check results
if result["status"] == "success":
    print(f"Fixed {result['fixes_applied']} vulnerabilities")
    print(f"PR created: {result['pull_request']['url']}")
```

### Workflow Demonstration

```python
# Run the workflow demo
python examples/workflow_demo.py

# Show workflow architecture only
python examples/workflow_demo.py --info-only
```

## 🧪 Testing

### Unit Tests
```bash
# Run all tests
python -m unittest discover tests/

# Run specific test suite
python -m unittest tests.test_fixer_agent
python -m unittest tests.test_orchestrator_app

# Run workflow integration tests
python tests/test_integration_workflow.py
```

### Test Coverage
- **29 unit tests** covering all agents and services
- **Mock-based testing** for external dependencies
- **Integration tests** for LangGraph workflows
- **End-to-end workflow validation**

## 🛡️ Supported Vulnerability Types

| Vulnerability | CWE IDs | Severity | AI Model |
|---------------|---------|----------|----------|
| SQL Injection | CWE-89 | High | Gemini-Pro |
| Cross-Site Scripting | CWE-79 | Medium-High | Gemini-Pro |
| Command Injection | CWE-78 | High | Gemini-Pro |
| Path Traversal | CWE-22 | Medium | Gemini-Pro |
| Insecure Deserialization | CWE-502 | High | Gemini-Pro |
| Authentication Bypass | CWE-287 | High | Gemini-Pro |
| Authorization Issues | CWE-285 | Medium-High | Gemini-Pro |
| Crypto Weaknesses | CWE-327 | Medium | Gemini-Pro |

## 🌐 Deployment

### Cloud Run (Google Cloud)

```bash
# Build and deploy
gcloud builds submit --tag gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/aegis-orchestrator
gcloud run deploy --image gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/aegis-orchestrator --platform managed
```

### Terraform Infrastructure

```bash
cd infra/configuration/terraform
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

### GitHub Actions CI/CD

Automated deployment pipeline with:
- Code quality checks (pylint, black, isort)
- Security scanning
- Unit test execution
- Docker image building
- Cloud Run deployment

## 📈 Performance & Metrics

### Throughput
- **Repository Analysis**: ~100 files/minute
- **Vulnerability Detection**: ~95% accuracy
- **Fix Generation**: ~85% success rate
- **False Positive Rate**: <10%

### Scalability
- Horizontal scaling via Cloud Run
- Concurrent repository processing
- Vertex AI model auto-scaling
- Distributed workflow execution

## 🔐 Security & Compliance

### Security Features
- Encrypted credential storage
- Audit logging for all operations
- Role-based access control (RBAC)
- Secure API communication (HTTPS/TLS)

### Compliance Standards
- SOC 2 Type II compliance ready
- GDPR data protection compliance
- ISO 27001 security standards
- NIST Cybersecurity Framework alignment

## 🤝 Contributing

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Run tests (`python -m unittest discover tests/`)
4. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
5. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
6. Open Pull Request

### Code Quality Standards
- **Linting**: pylint score ≥ 8.0
- **Formatting**: black code formatter
- **Type Hints**: mypy static type checking
- **Test Coverage**: ≥ 80% code coverage
- **Documentation**: Comprehensive docstrings

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support & Documentation

### Resources
- **Documentation**: [Full API Documentation](docs/)
- **Examples**: [Usage Examples](examples/)
- **Tutorials**: [Getting Started Guide](docs/tutorial.md)
- **FAQ**: [Frequently Asked Questions](docs/faq.md)

### Getting Help
- 📧 Email: support@aegis-orchestrator.dev
- 💬 Slack: #aegis-orchestrator
- 🐛 Issues: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/your-org/aegis-orchestrator/issues)
- 📚 Wiki: [Project Wiki](https://github.com/your-org/aegis-orchestrator/wiki)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

### Copyright Notice
Copyright 2025 Aegis Orchestrator Contributors

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at:

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

---

**Built with ❤️ by the Aegis Security Team**

*Empowering developers to build secure applications through intelligent automation.*
